Update NFT-RFC-002-use-cases.md (#12)
interNFT/use-cases: NFT-RFC-002-use-cases.md

### 4.1 Quality Carbon Credits

####Context

> The commonly understood risks and impacts of global climate change are rapidly increasing and accelerating.  With this trend, pressure mounts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, remove carbon from the atmosphere, and balance the annual global carbon budget for the protection of life, property and markets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commonly understood risks and impacts of global climate change are rapidly increasing and accelerating. With this trend, pressure mounts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, remove carbon from the atmosphere, and balance the annual global carbon budget for the protection of life, property and markets.
```

Carbon accounting and markets are now widely accepted by scientists and citizen groups, corporations and governments who are finally taking climate related risk seriously. As voluntary and compliance markets for carbon, corporate science based reporting, emissions taxes and other mechanisms become more common, the demands for carbon accounting integrity become more challenging to meet.
In support of rapid climate action, it is important for carbon accounting to be grounded in and tracking natural carbon cycles of emissions and sequestration. An essential goal is not simply to bring the  global carbon budget to net zero but also to reach a state of being  a carbon negative for some time to bring atmospheric carbon concentrations back to pre-industrial levels if we want to guarantee conditions conducive to biosphere functioning as humans have evolved.
Carbon accounting and markets. There are different types of carbon credits.

> Generally speaking we can think of carbon credits in two larger categories: emissions reduction, and negative emissions or carbon removal.  Emissions reductions focus on increasing energy efficiency, lowering ghg emissions and include categories such as renewable energy, avoided deforestation, and efficiency projects).  Carbon removal or negative emissions based credits are actively accounting for the net removal of carbon or other ghg from the atmosphere and storing it permanently, or for a term/time period determined by the credit class. A third type of carbon asset: carbon storage, may become important in the future, however there are not currently carbon storage markets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally speaking we can think of carbon credits in two larger categories: emissions reduction, and negative emissions or carbon removal.  Emissions reductions focus on increasing energy efficiency, lowering ghg emissions and include categories such as renewable energy, avoided deforestation, and efficiency projects.  Carbon removal or negative emissions based credits are actively accounting for the net removal of carbon or other ghg from the atmosphere and storing it permanently, or for a term/time period determined by the credit class. A third type of carbon asset: carbon storage, may become important in the future, however there are not currently carbon storage markets. 
```

For the purpose of this user story we will use the following carbon definitions: 
Living carbon: organic, flowing in biological cycles, providing fresh food, healthy forests and fertile soil; something we want to cultivate and grow
Durable carbon: locked in stable solids such as coal and limestone or recyclable polymers that are used and reused; ranges from reusable fibers like paper and cloth, to building and infrastructure elements that can last for generations and then be reusedFugitive carbon: has ended up somewhere unwanted and can be toxic; includes carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuels, ‘waste to energy’ plants, methane leaks, deforestation, much industrial agriculture and urban development
Source: https://mcdonough.com/new-language-carbon/

*Living carbon* can be turned into durable carbon with timber, biochar, bioplastics and conversion to other durable materials.
Living carbon storage capacity is also variable, with ecosystems being able to, slowly and over time, grow their capacity to store carbon in soil, etc until at a certain point systems reach a “saturation point”.  
####User Story One: Credit issuance and transfer.  

> Interchain credit transfer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Interchain carbon credit transfer**
```

Farmer Jane provides produce to Acme ag. She would like to add carbon credit sales to her list of agricultural production outputs brought to market. In addition to Acme there are also several other marketplaces forming and Jane wants to be able to find the best possible price for her carbon with the least amount of work.
A start up carbon project developer who provides monitoring services approaches her with an easy monitoring and verification approach and proposal for upfront payment in exchange for her carbon. She accepts because she needs the cash. This carbon market developer is working with a market exchange registry (Registry1) that is running as a smart contract in an Ethereum state channel.
Acme ag partners with a second developer that is confident of their ability to sell the carbon credits at a higher price using a different exchange registry (Registry2), and a different and more rigorous verification threshold. Jane second guesses her decision and wants to transfer her carbon credit claim from Registry to Registry2.

> An upfront payment for the first credit issuance has been made, and the first round of carbon credits have already been issued.  Jane and Acme agree that it is worth buying the claim rights back.  They do so, and then transfer the claim rights associated with the farm to Registry2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An upfront payment for the first credit issuance has been made, and the first round of carbon credits have already been issued. Jane and Acme agree that it is worth buying the claim rights back. They do so, and then transfer the claim rights associated with the farm to Registry2
```

> The transition of carbon from Registry1 to Registry2 requires running additional data collection and uses a different quantification algorithm that is considered by third parties to be more rigorous, with lower (and transparently quantified uncertainty.) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transition of carbon from Registry1 to Registry2 requires running additional data collection and uses a different quantification algorithm that is considered by third parties to be more rigorous, with lower uncertainty and transparent quantification. 
```

Registry2 is running on a cosmosSDK chain.
Acme ag agrees to underwrite the cost of additional verification.

> Now that the claim rights have been transferred to registry2 due to it’s ability to better serve Jane and Acme, the verification process proceeds and a new vintage of credits are issues including the full audit trail of the registry change.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the claim rights have been transferred to registry2 due to its ability to better serve Jane and Acme, the verification process proceeds and a new vintage of credits are issued, including the full audit trail of the registry change.  
```

####User Needs

> Acme Ag demands that there be no conflicting carbon claims on the farm in question 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Acme Ag demands that there be no conflicting carbon claims on the farm in question 
```

> Acme Ag demands ability to audit and hold seller, Farmer Jane, liable for double counting Farmer Jane requires access to multiple markets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acme Ag demands ability to audit and hold seller, Farmer Jane, liable for double counting 
* Farmer Jane requires access to multiple markets.
```

> Acme Ag demands ability to audit and hold seller, Farmer Jane, liable for double counting Farmer Jane requires access to multiple markets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Acme Ag demands ability to audit and hold seller, Farmer Jane, liable for double counting 
* Farmer Jane requires access to multiple markets.
```

> Farmer Jane requires monitoring and verification costs to be shouldered by purchaser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Farmer Jane requires monitoring and verification costs to be shouldered by purchaser.
```

> Registryt1: Need to be paid back for the carbon they pre-purchased 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Registryt1: Need to be paid back for the carbon they pre-purchased 
```

> Registry2 Needs to be able to represent the movement of that carbon to avoid double counting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Registry2 Needs to be able to represent the movement of that carbon to avoid double counting
```

> Registry2 needs to be able to incorporate the credit class (verification methodology, data schema, etc) into it’s registry system while maintaining full data integrity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Registry2 needs to be able to incorporate the credit class (verification methodology, data schema, etc) into its registry system while maintaining full data integrity. 
```

> All registries need to be able to represent the provenance of the carbon in question (both geolocation and the fact it moves from a different registry), in a way that give privacy control to appropriate parties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All registries need to be able to represent the provenance of the carbon in question (both geolocation and the fact it moves from a different registry), in a way that give privacy control to appropriate parties.
```

> Market2 Needs to be able to update the claim with the new methodology but maintain consistency in the time period and geolocation of the claim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Market2 Needs to be able to update the claim with the new methodology but maintain consistency in the time period and geolocation of the claim
```

#####Leakage: 
“Does this change create a carbon emission increase somewhere else”. For instance does forest conservation in one place cause a forest somewhere else to be cut down? Ability to link credit claims to a larger system of carbon accounting (transport, etc) are important. Ability for counter claims are important. For instance, if it becomes clear that a particular practice is sequestering carbon in one place, while causing emissions in another (for instance a forest is planted on farm land which causes another forest to be clear cut, burned and turned into forest), the NET carbon emissions must be considered in the claims process.  
#####Uncertainty: 

> “How sure are we about the monitoring and quantification methodology that is under the hood of the carbon credit in question”. There is always some uncertainty as this is a probabilistic science, especially with living carbon credits. Metadata associated with the evidence backing a credit, the specific threshold of “verification consensus”, and clear statements of uncertainty are required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
“How sure are we about the monitoring and quantification methodology that is under the hood of the carbon credit in question?”. There is always some uncertainty as this is a probabilistic science, especially with living carbon credits. Metadata associated with the evidence backing a credit, the specific threshold of “verification consensus”, and clear statements of uncertainty are required. 
```
